do you struggle with English grammar do
you often get confused about when to use
go or goes was or were don't worry
you're not alone many English Learners
face the same challenge but today I'm
going to make grammar easy for
you welcome to the grammar doctor your
go-to place for learning English in a
simple and fun way if you want to
improve your grammar speak confidently
and avoid common mistakes you're in the
right
place in this lesson I'll take you
through the basics of English grammar in
an easy to understand way by the end of
this video you'll have a strong
foundation in English grammar and be
able to use it with
confidence make sure to watch till the
end because I have a fun quiz for you
let's begin before before we start
learning let's answer a simple question
what is
grammar grammar is the set of rules that
help us form correct sentences in
English it includes words sentence
structure tenses and
punctuation without grammar our
sentences would be confusing imagine
saying she go school yesterday the
correct way is she went to school
yesterday that's why learning grammar is
important to understand English grammar
you need to know the eight parts of
speech these are the building blocks of
English
sentences nouns are names of people
places or things such as John London or
book pronouns replace nouns like he she
they and it verbs are action words such
as run write eat and talk adjectives
describe nouns for example beautiful big
small and fast adverbs describe verbs
like quickly slowly and happily
prepositions show direction place or
time such as on in under before and
after conjunctions connect words or
sentences like and but and because
finally interjections are short
exclamations such as wow o and hey let's
see an example sentence the Happy Boy
quickly ran to his school because he was
late understanding these eight parts of
speech will help you improve your
grammar fast now let's talk about
sentence
structure every English sentence has
three main parts the subject tells us
who or what the sentence is about such
as JN the cat we or they the verb
describes an action or state of being
like is run talk or eat the object
receives the action such as a book the
cake or a message for example in the
sentence John is reading a book John is
the subject is reading is the verb and a
book is the object another example is
she loves music a complete sentence must
have these three parts without them your
sentence is
incomplete tenses tell us when an action
happens past present or future the past
past tense describe something that
happened before for example yesterday I
watched a movie the present tense
describes something happening now like I
am watching a video the future tense
describes something that will happen
later such as tomorrow I will watch a
movie tenses are very important in
English grammar we will cover each tense
in detail in upcoming videos so stay
tuned
let's talk about some common mistakes
that English Learners make and how to
correct them many Learners say she go to
school every day the correct sentence is
she goes to school every day another
mistake is I didn't went to the party
the correct sentence is I didn't go to
the party similarly he don't like coffee
should be he doesn't like coffee by aoid
avoiding these mistakes you will sound
more fluent and
confident now it's time for a quick quiz
Let's test what you've learned today
answer in the comments which of these is
a verb a slowly B jump C happy what is
the correct sentence a she eat dinner
every night B she eats dinner every
night which sentence is in the future
tense a I will travel to London B I
travel to London
comment your answers below I'll check
them in
reply great job today you've learned the
basics of English grammar including
parts of speech sentence structure
tenses and common
mistakes keep practicing and soon you'll
be speaking English
fluently don't forget to like this video
if you found it helpful subscribe to the
grammar doctor for more English lesson
and turn on
notifications so you never miss a new
lesson do you ever wonder why English
sentences work the way they do why do we
say she runs fast instead of she fast
runs the answer lies in the eight parts
of speech the building blocks of English
grammar welcome to the grammar doctor
where learning English is easy and fun
in today's lesson we'll break down down
the eight parts of speech explain how
they work and give you simple examples
so you can start using them correctly by
the end of this video you'll have a
clear understanding of each part of
speech and I'll even test you with a fun
quiz at the end so stick around every
English word belongs to one of eight
categories based on how it functions in
a sentence these are nouns pronouns
verbs adjectives adverbs prepositions
conjunctions and
interjections nouns are the names of
people places things or even abstract
ideas for example John teacher London
school car book love and happiness are
all nouns if we say the dog is playing
in the park both dog and park are nouns
because they name a thing and a place
pronouns replace nouns to avoid
repetition instead of saying Sarah loves
Sarah's dog we say she loves her dog
common pronouns include I you he she it
we they subject pronouns and me him her
us them object
pronouns verbs on the other hand tell
tell us what the subject is doing or
experiencing action verbs include run
write dance and jump while State verbs
include is am are was and were in the
sentence she writes a letter the word
writes is the
verb adjectives describe nouns by giving
details about their qualities such as
color size or characteristics
words like red big beautiful smart and
strong are
adjectives if we say the tall girl is
reading a new book The Words tall and
new describe the girl and the book
similarly adverbs describe verbs
adjectives or other adverbs answering
questions like how when where or to what
extent for example in she speaks
fluently the adverb fluently tells us
how she
speaks prepositions show the
relationship between a noun or pronoun
and another word in the sentence they
can indicate place in on under time
before after during or direction to from
into in the book is on the table the
word on tells us the book's position
conjunctions connect words phrases or
sentences common types include
coordinating conjunctions like for and
nor but or yet so Fanboys subordinating
conjunctions like because although since
and while and correlative conjunctions
like either or and neither
nor if we say I wanted to go out but it
was raining the word but connects the
two
ideas finally interjections are short
words that Express strong emotions such
as wow oh no ouch if we say wow that's
amazing the word wow is an
interjection now let's test your knowled
with a quick quiz which word is a noun a
jump B table C slowly what is the verb
in the sentence she danced
beautifully a she B danced C beautifully
which sentence contains a preposition a
I am happy B the book is on the table C
she is dancing write your answers in the
comments and I'll reply great job
today now you know the eight parts of
speech and how they work keep practicing
and soon you'll be a grammar expert if
this lesson helped you don't forget to
like subscribe to the grammar doctor and
turn on notifications for more fun
English
lessons see you in the next lesson keep
learning and improving bye for now what
if I told you that every sentence you
say or write needs a noun sounds crazy
right but it's true without nouns our
sentences would make no sense welcome to
the grammar doctor where learning
English is easy and fun in today's
lesson we're diving deep into one of the
most important parts of speech
nouns by the end of this video you'll
know what nouns are they different types
and how to use them correctly and don't
forget there's a fun quiz at the end to
test your skills so stay with me till
the
end a noun is a word that names a person
place thing or idea for example words
like teacher Doctor John and Sarah
represent people while School Park India
and London refer to places nouns can
also be things such as book phone chair
and
water finally nouns can represent ideas
like love happiness freedom and
democracy to understand how nouns
function in a sentence let's look at an
example Sarah reads a book in the park
here Sarah is a person book is a thing
and park is a place all of them are
nouns not all nouns are the same some
nouns are common nouns which refer to
General names of people places or things
words like City girl River and book fall
into this category on the other hand
proper noun refer to specific names and
always start with a capital letter
examples include London Sarah Amazon
River and Harry Potter for instance in
the sentence I live in a city called New
York the word city is a common noun
while New York is a proper noun because
it names a specific Place nouns can also
be divided into countable and and
uncountable nouns countable nouns are
things that you can count and they have
singular and plural forms examples
include apple one apple two apples chair
and dog meanwhile uncountable nouns
refer to things that cannot be counted
individually such as water rice air and
love for example in the sentence I
bought two apples but I need some rice
the word apples is countable but rice is
uncountable another way to categorize
nouns is as concrete or
abstract concrete nouns refer to things
you can see touch hear smell or taste
like table music Perfume and
Cake abstract nouns on the other hand
represent things you cannot see or touch
these are emotions qualities or concepts
such as happiness bravery knowledge and
honesty for example in the sentence she
gave me a flower to show her love the
word flower is a concrete noun while
love is an abstract
noun some nouns are called collective
nouns because they refer to a group of
people people animals or things for
example a team of players a flock of
birds or a bunch of grapes are all
collective nouns in the sentence the
jury is discussing the case the word
jury is a collective noun because it
refers to a group of people acting as
one unit most nouns have singular and
plural forms regular plural nouns simply
adds or ease to form the plural such as
dog dogs and book books however some
nouns have irregular plural forms like
child children tooth teeth and man men
for example in the sentence one child is
playing but many children are running
the word child changes to children in
the plural form nouns play different
roles in sentences
they can be the subject as in the dog is
barking they can also be the object like
in she bought a book nouns often appear
with adjectives as in he has a beautiful
house using nouns correctly helps create
clear and meaningful
sentences now it's time for a quick quiz
let's see how much you've
learned comment your answers below
and I'll reply to let you know if you're
right one what type of noun is Paris a
common noun B proper noun C abstract
noun two which sentence contains account
countable noun a I drank some water B
she bought two apples C he feels
happiness three what is the plural form
of child a
child's B child's C children great job
today now you understand what nouns are
their different types and how to use
them correctly keep practicing and soon
you'll be speaking English
fluently if this lesson helped you don't
forget to like subscribe to the grammar
doctor and hit the Bell icon for more
fun and easy English lessons see you in
the next video
keep learning keep growing bye for now
imagine telling a story without using
words like he she or they it would sound
repetitive and awkward that's why we
have pronouns small words that make our
sentences smooth and
natural welcome to the grammar doctor
your go-to channel for mastering English
grammar in today's lesson will cover
pronouns what they are their types and
how to use them correctly and at the end
we have a fun quiz so stick around till
the
end a pronoun is a word that replaces a
noun in a
sentence instead of repeating the same
noun again and again we use pronouns to
make our sentences shorter and clearer
for example without a pronoun
John loves
football John plays football every day
John's friends also love
football now with a pronoun John loves
football he plays football every day his
friends also love football see how much
smoother the sentence sounds That's The
Power of
pronouns there are different types of
pronouns each serving a specific purpose
let's go through them one by
one personal pronouns refer to specific
people or things and change based on
number singular plural and function
subject
object subject pronouns are used as the
subject of a sentence and include I you
he she it we they object pronouns are
used as the object of a a sentence and
include me you him her it us them for
example in the sentence she gave me a
book the word she is a subject pronoun
and me is an object
pronoun possessive pronouns show
ownership or possession some examples
are mine yours his hers ours theirs for
instance in this bag is mine but that
one is
yours the words mine and yours indicate
possession reflexive pronouns are used
when the subject and object of a
sentence are the same examples include
myself yourself himself herself itself
ourselves yourselves
themselves for instance she looked at
herself in the mirror demonst ative
pronouns point to specific things such
as this that these those for example
this is my phone but that is
yours interrogative pronouns are used to
ask questions including who whom who
what which for example who is calling me
relative pronouns connect Clauses in a
sentence these include who whom who
which that an example is the book that I
borrowed was interesting indefinite
pronouns refer to people or things
without being specific some examples are
someone everyone anybody nobody
everything anything for instance someone
left their bag here reciprocal pronouns
show Mutual action between two or more
people the two reciprocal pronouns are
each other and one another for example
they love each other deeply to use
pronouns correctly follow these Simple
Rules use subject pronouns as the
subject of a sentence for example he is
my friend correct versus him is my
friend incorrect use object pronouns
after verbs or prepositions for example
she gave the book to me
correct versus she gave the book to
I incorrect use reflexive pronouns only
when needed for example I hurt myself
correct versus I hurt me
incorrect now it's quiz time let's see
how much you've learned answer in the
comments one which sentence is correct a
me love English
B I love English two what type of
pronoun is him a subject pronoun B
object pronoun three fill in the blank
this pen is mine but that one
is I comment your answers below and I'll
reply to let you know if you're right
great job today now you know what
pronouns are their types and how to use
them correctly
keep practicing and soon you'll be
speaking
fluently if you found this lesson
helpful don't forget to like subscribe
and hit the Bell icon for more fun
English lessons on the grammar doctor
see you in the next video keep learning
keep growing bye for now imagine trying
to speak English without action words or
descriptions how would you say I eat
food or or the sky is blue that's where
verbs and adjectives come in they bring
sentences to life and make communication
possible welcome to the grammar doctor
where we make English grammar easy in
today's lesson we'll cover two powerful
parts of speech verbs and
adjectives by the end you'll know how to
use them correctly and we'll have a fun
quiz to test your skills
so stay till the end a verb is an action
word it tells us what someone or
something does is or feels some examples
of verbs include action verbs like run
eat write dance and jump state of being
verbs like is am are was and were and
feeling verbs like love hate enjoy and
believe for example in the sentence she
writes a story the word writes is an
action verb there are different types of
verbs action verbs show an action such
as run swim read and sing EG he runs
fast linking verbs connect the subject
to a description such as is am are was
and were EG she is happy where is
connects she and happy helping verbs
auxiliary verbs help the main verb and
include words like is am are has have
will can and should EG she is reading a
book where is help's reading modal verbs
Express ability permission or necessity
such as can must must should might and
may EG you should study for the
test verbs also change based on time
forming different
tenses past tense describes something
that happened before like she studied
English
yesterday present tense describes
something happening now like she Studies
English every day future tense describes
something that will happen like she will
study English tomorrow verbs help us
express time and action correctly an
adjective is a word that describes a
noun or pronoun it tells us more about a
person place or thing some examples
include beautiful tall small happy blue
and fast in the sentence the Blue Sky Is
Beautiful the words blue and beautiful
Des describe the
sky adjectives are also divided into
different types descriptive adjectives
describe a nouns quality such as she has
long hair quantitative adjectives show
quantity or number such as I have two
books demonstrative adjectives point to
specific things using words like this
that these and those EG I like this
dress but not that
one possessive adjectives show ownership
using words like my your his her our and
their EG this is my
car adjectives also help in making
comparisons comparative adjectives
compare two things like bigger faster
and taller EG this book is better than
that one while superlative adjectives
compare more than two things like
biggest fastest and tallest EG this is
the best book I've
read verbs and adjectives work together
to create clear and expressive sentences
verbs show action while adjectives
describe the subject for example in the
happy girl runs quickly the adjective
happy describes the girl and the verb
runs shows the action similarly in he
drives a fast car the adjective fast
describes the car and the verb drives
tells us what is happening now it's time
for a quick quiz answer in the comments
below which word is a verb a beautiful B
runs C happy fill in the blank the dog
dog is very
b a jump B small C eat what is the past
tense of write a writes B wrote C
writing comment your answers below and
I'll reply to let you know if you're
right great job today now you know the
power of verbs and adjectives how they
bring sentences to life keep practicing
and soon you'll be speaking English with
confidence if you found this lesson
helpful don't forget to like subscribe
and hit the Bell icon for more grammar
lessons on the grammar doctor see you in
the next video keep learning keep
growing bye for now imagine describing
an action without saying how when or
where it happens imagine giving
directions without words like on in or
under that would be confusing right
that's why we have adverbs and
prepositions they help us speak clearly
and express ourselves
better welcome to the grammar doctor
where we make English grammar simple and
fun today we're diving into two
important parts of speech adverbs and
prepositions stick around till the end
because we have a quick quiz to to test
your
skills an adverb is a word that modifies
a verb an adjective or another adverb it
tells us how when where or to what
extent something happens for example in
the sentence she sings beautifully the
word beautifully describes how she sings
in he arrived early the word early tells
us when he arrived D and in they looked
everywhere the word everywhere tells us
where they looked there are different
types of adverbs adverbs of manner
describe how something happens such as
quickly slowly happily badly example she
speaks
fluently adverbs of time tell us when
something happens such as yesterday
today soon now
later example we will leave soon adverbs
of place tell us where something happens
such as here there everywhere Outside
Inside example he looked everywhere for
his
keys adverbs of frequency tell us how
often something happens such as always
never sometimes often often
rarely example she always wakes up early
lastly adverbs of degree tell us to what
extent something happens such as very to
almost completely
extremely
example it's very cold
today a preposition is a word that shows
the relationship between a noun or
pronoun and another word in the sentence
it usually tells us about location
Direction time or manner for example in
the book is on the table the word on
tells us the book's position in she went
to the park the word to shows Direction
and in we will meet after lunch the word
after tells us when something happens
there are different types of
prepositions prepositions of place tell
us where something happens such as on in
under behind
between example the cat is under the
table prepositions of time tell us when
something happens such as at on in
before after example we will meet at
5:00 p.m. prep positions of Direction
describe movement from one place to
another such as to from into onto
example she walked to the
store prepositions of manner describe
how something happens such as by with
like as example he wrote the letter with
a pen lastly prepositions of cause and
reason explain why something happens
such as because of due to thanks to
example he was late because of traffic
adverbs and prepositions often work
together to make sentences more detailed
and meaningful for example she ran
quickly adverb to the park preposition
or they waited patiently adverb at the
bus stop
preposition you can see how adverbs
describe actions while preposition show
relationships now let's test your
knowledge with a quick quiz one which
word is an adverb a jump B quickly C
behind two fill in the blank the cat is
prow the sofa a in B running C happily
three what type of preposition is before
a preposition of time B preposition of
place C preposition of manner comment
your answers below and I'll reply to let
you know if you're right great job today
now you know the difference between
adverbs and prepositions and how to use
them correctly keep practicing and soon
you'll be using them like a pro if you
found this lesson helpful don't forget
to like subscribe and hit the Bell icon
for more grammar lessons on the grammar
doctor see you in the next video keep
learning keep growing bye for now
imagine speaking without connecting your
ideas no and but or because it would be
like reading a book with broken
sentences and what about expressing
strong emotions how would you say wow or
ouch that's why we have conjunctions
interjections welcome to the grammar
doctor where we make English grammar
easy and fun today we're covering the
last two parts of speech conjunctions
and
interjections stick around till the end
for a quick quiz to test your knowledge
a conjunction is a word that joins words
phrases or sentences together for
example in the sentence I like tea and
coffee the word and connects two nouns
another example is she was tired but she
kept working where but connects two
sentences there are three main types of
conjunctions coordinating conjunctions
join two equal parts of a sentence such
as for and nor but or yet so f a n b o y
s
an example is I wanted to go out but it
was raining next we have subordinating
conjunctions which connect a dependent
clause to an independent clause these
include because although since if while
until for example I stayed home because
I was sick finally correlative
conjunctions work in pairs such as
either or neither nor both and not only
but
also a sentence using a correlative
conjunction is you can have either tea
or coffee moving on to interjections
these are words or phrases that Express
strong emotions or sudden feelings for
instance we say wow that's amazing or
oops I dropped my phone to express
surprise or realization
some interjections Express Joy like
hooray yay wow While others show pain
such as ouch ow ah we also have
interjections of greeting like hello hi
hey and those of agreement or
disagreement such as yes no me na these
words are essential in everyday
conversation conjunctions and inter
rejections often work together to make
sentences more expressive for example
wow I wanted to go outside but it
started raining another example is oops
I forgot to bring my book so I went back
home you can see how conjunctions help
connect ideas while interjections bring
emotion into a
sentence now let's test your
understanding with a quick quiz first
which word is a con Junction A and B
ouch C High second fill in the
blank I just won the lottery A and B wow
C because finally what type of
conjunction is although a coordinating B
subordinating C correlative comment your
answers below and I'll reply to let you
know if you're right congratulations
you've now learned all eight parts of
speech conjunctions help us connect
ideas and interjections help us express
emotions keep practicing and soon you'll
Master English grammar if you found this
lesson helpful don't forget to like
subscribe and hit the Bell icon for more
grammar lessons on the grammar doctor
see you in the next video keep learning
keep growing
bye for now do you want to sound more
professional in English have you ever
wondered why some sentences focus on the
action While others focus on the
doer understanding the difference
between active and passive voice can
help you improve your writing and
speaking skills welcome to the grammar
doctor where learning English is easy
and
fun today we are diving deep into one of
the most important grammar topics active
and passive voice by the end of this
lesson you'll know how to use both
effectively and you'll even get to test
yourself with a fun quiz at the end so
stay with
me every sentence in English has a
subject a verb and an object the way we
arrange these elements changes whether
the sentence is in the active or passive
voice in active voice the subject
performs the action in passive voice the
focus shifts to the object and the doer
of the action may be left out or
mentioned later in the
sentence let's look at an example in the
active voice we say the chef cooked a
delicious meal here the chef is the
subject cooked is the verb and a
delicious meal is the object but what if
we want to focus on the meal rather than
the
chef that's where the passive voice
comes
in the sentence becomes a delicious meal
was cooked by the chef the object a
delicious meal moves to the front and we
use the verb was cooked to show that the
action happened to the
meal active voice is generally more
direct strong and engaging that's why
it's preferred in most writing
especially in storytelling business
communication and Casual
conversations for example the company
launched a new product sounds more
confident than a new product was
launched by the company in academic
writing scientific reports or formal
documents passive voice is often used to
emphasize results rather than the person
performing the action for instance the
experiment was conducted in a controlled
environment sounds more formal than
scientists conducted the experiment in a
controlled
environment passive voice is formed
using a form of the verb to be followed
by the past participle of the main
verb let's look at different tenses in
both active and pass passive voice in
present simple the teacher explains the
lesson becomes the lesson is explained
by the
teacher in past simple they built the
house last year changes to the house was
built last year for future simple she
will complete the project soon turns
into the project will be completed soon
in present continuous they are painting
the wall becomes the walls are being
painted in past continuous the police
were investigating the case changes to
the case was being
investigated in present perfect he has
written a novel turns into a novel has
been written by him in past perfect they
had finished the assignment before the
deadline becomes the assignment had been
finished before the deadline there are
situations where passive voice is more
appropriate than active voice if the
doer of the action is unknown
unimportant or obvious passive voice is
preferred for example the window was
broken does not specify who broke it but
it conveys the necessary
information similarly in formal or
professional settings passive voice
helps maintain Ain a neutral
tone mistakes were made sounds less
accusatory than you made mistakes to
make sentences more engaging writers
often avoid passive voice unless
necessary instead of saying a mistake
was made by the student we can simply
say the student made a
mistake this makes communication clearer
and more direct
however passive voice is useful when we
want to be diplomatic scientific or
emphasize the action rather than the
subject let's put your knowledge to the
test try answering these questions in
the comments convert this active
sentence into passive the manager
approved the new policy which sentence
is in passive voice a the scientist
discovered a new planet b a new planet
was discovered by the
scientist rewrite this passive sentence
into active voice the invitations were
sent by the event
organizers comment your answers below
and I'll reply to let you know if you
got them right
congratulations now you know how to use
active and passive voice effectively
keep practicing and soon you'll be able
to switch between them with ease if you
found this lesson helpful don't forget
to like subscribe to the grammar doctor
and hit the Bell icon so you never miss
a lesson keep learning keep growing and
see you in the next
video to dive deeper practice rewriting
more sentences in both active and
passive voice try writing a short parag
Raph and changing it from active to
passive then back again the more you
practice the easier it
becomes also look at newspapers books or
articles and try to identify whether the
sentences are an active or passive
voice this will help you become more
aware of how both voices are used in
real life
contexts remember active voice is
preferred in most situations but knowing
when to use passive voice effectively
can enhance your writing and speaking
skills keep experimenting with different
sentence structures and soon using both
voices will feel natural and effortless
happy
learning do you ever wonder why we say
she is eating instead of she eat or why
we say I went to school yesterday but
not I go to school
yesterday the answer lies in
tenses tenses are one of the most
important parts of English grammar
because they help us express
time whether we're talking about the
past present or future tenses allow us
to communicate clearly and accurately if
you want to speak English fluently
understanding tenses is a must without
tenses our sentences would lack Clarity
and others might not understand whether
we are talking about something that
already happened something that is
happening now or something that will
happen in the future every English
sentence has a verb and the verb changes
based on the time of action there are
three main tenses in English past
present and future each of these t
is further divided into four forms
simple continuous perfect and perfect
continuous making a total of 12
tenses each of these forms has a
specific use and once you understand
them you'll be able to express yourself
more naturally in
English these 12 tenses might seem
difficult at first but once you get
familiar with them you'll realize ize
how they help you speak English more
correctly mastering tenses will not only
improve your grammar but also boost your
confidence when speaking writing and
understanding English let's start with
the present
tense the present simple tense is used
for facts routines and habits for
example the sun rises in the East and
she plays football every Sunday
we use the present simple tense when
talking about things that happen
regularly or that are always true it
does not describe actions that are
happening at this moment but rather
things that are generally true this
tense is the most basic form of
expressing actions and is used very
frequently in everyday
English another common use of the
present simple tense is to express
scheduled events such as the train
leaves at 6:00 p.m. or the movie starts
at 8:00 p.m. even though these sentences
talk about the future we use the present
simple because they refer to fixed
schedules or Tim taes the present
continuous tense on the other hand is
used to talk about actions happening
right now for example she is reading a
book this tense is formed using the verb
to be am is R followed by the main verb
with
in if someone asks what are you doing
you can answer using the present
continuous I am watching a
movie we also use the present continuous
tense to talk about temporary actions or
ongo going
situations for example I am staying with
my friend for a few days means that my
stay is temporary and will change
soon additionally this tense is used to
talk about planned future actions like I
am meeting my friend tomorrow the
present perfect tense connects the past
to the present for example I have
finished my homework workk this means
that the action of finishing happened in
the past but the result is still
relevant in the
present we often use this tense when
talking about life experiences or things
that have happened at some point before
now for example I have visited Paris
means that at some time in the past I
went to Paris but the exact time is not
mentioned this t is commonly used in
conversations when people ask about
experiences such as have you ever been
to New York or have you ever tried Sushi
the present perfect continuous tense is
used for actions that started in the
past and are still happening for example
she has been studying for 3 hours this
tense emphasizes the duration of an
action that began in the past and is
continuing into the present it helps
Express how long an action has been
happening usually with time expressions
like for and since for example I have
been working here since
2015 or he has been waiting for 2
hours now let's move on to the past
tense the past simple tense is used for
completed actions in the past for
example he visited Paris last year this
means that the action of visiting Paris
happened at a specific time in the past
and is now
over this is one of the most commonly
used tenses in
storytelling if you want to describe
what happened in a movie or a book you
will mostly use the past simple tense
for example he opened the door walked
into the room and sat down the past
simple tense is also used for historical
facts such as World War II ended in
1945 the past continuous tense is used
for actions that were happening at a
specific time in the past for example I
was watching TV when she
called this means that the action of
watching TV was in progress when another
action the phone call happened this
tense is useful when describing
background events in a story for example
the wind was blowing and the children
were playing in the park when it
suddenly started to rain the past
perfect tense shows that one past action
happened before another for example she
had already left when I
arrived this means that first she left
and then I
arrived this tense helps us make the
sequence of events clear without it the
meaning could be confusing for example
he had finished his dinner before I
arrived makes it clear that the dinner
was completed before my
arrival the past perfect continuous
tense is used for actions that were
happening for a duration before another
action in the past for example he had
been working at the company for 5 years
before he got promoted this emphasizes
how long something had been happening
before another past event took
place finally let's look at the future
tense the future simple tense is used
for actions that will happen in the
future for example I will call you
tomorrow
tomorrow this is the most common way to
talk about future plans or
intentions the future continuous tense
is used for actions that will be
happening at a specific time in the
future for example this time next week I
will be traveling to London this means
that at a particular moment in the
future the action will be in
progress the future perfect tense shows
that an action will be completed before
a certain point in the
future for example by next year I will
have finished my degree this means that
before the end of next year the action
of finishing my degree will be completed
the future perfect continuous tense is
used for actions that will have been
happening for a period of time before a
future moment for example by the time
you arrive I will have been waiting for
hours this tense focuses on the duration
of an action up to a specific point in
the
future understanding tenses is essential
for Clear
communication without them we wouldn't
be able to express when things
happen imagine telling a story without
tenses it would be confusing for the
list to know if events happened
yesterday today or in the
future learning and practicing these
tenses will help you speak and write
English with
confidence the best way to master tenses
is to practice them in real life
conversations try making sentences using
different tenses listen to native
speakers and pay attention to how they
use tenses in everyday speech
you can also read books and watch movies
in English to see how tenses are used
naturally keep practicing listen
carefully and soon you'll be using
English tenses like a pro do you ever
wonder how words come together to form
clear and meaningful sentences why do we
say she is reading a book instead of
reading book she is the answer lies in
the structure of a sentence
understanding sentence structure is one
of the most important aspects of
mastering English whether you're
speaking or writing knowing how to
arrange words correctly will make your
communication clearer and more effective
every sentence consists of different
elements that work together to express a
complete thought the basic unit of any
sentence is the subject and the
predicate the subject is the part that
tells us who or what the sentence is
about while the predicate contains the
verb and gives more information about
the subject for example in the sentence
the cat sleeps the cat is the subject
and sleeps is the predicate without a
subject or a predicate a sentence would
be incomplete and meaningless expanding
on this we can see that sentences can
take different forms depending on their
length and complexity a simple sentence
contains just one independent clause
like she sings beautifully an
independent clause is a group of words
that has a subject and a verb and
expresses a complete
idea however when we want to add more
information we move to compound or
complex sentences a compound sentence is
formed by joining two independent
clauses using conjunctions like and but
or or for example she sings beautifully
and she plays the
piano on the other hand and a complex
sentence includes an independent clause
and at least one dependent clause a
dependent clause cannot stand alone as a
complete sentence for example she sings
beautifully because she practices every
day here because she practices every day
is a dependent clause that adds more
meaning to the main
idea understanding sentence types helps
us communicate more effectively a
declarative sentence States a fact or
opinion like the sun is shining an
interrogative sentence asks a question
such as is the sun shining an imperative
sentence gives a command like close the
door and an exclamatory sentence
expresses strong emotion such as what a
beautiful day knowing how to use these
different sentence types makes our
speech and writing more Dynamic and
engaging another important aspect of
sentence structure is word order in
English sentences typically follow a
subject verb object SV pattern for
example John eats an apple here JN is
the subject eats is the verb and an
apple is the object changing the word
order can alter the meaning or make the
sentence incorrect imagine saying eats
an apple John this would be confusing
and grammatically incorrect this is why
understanding the correct word order is
essential for Clear communication
modifiers are another key element of
sentence structure adjectives and
adverbs add extra details and make
sentences more descriptive for example
instead of saying she runs we can say
she runs quickly to give more
information about how she runs
misplacing modifiers however can lead to
confusion consider the sentence she
almost ate all the cookies this means
she nearly ate them but didn't but if we
say she ate all almost all the cookies
it means she ate most of them small
changes in sentence structure can have a
big impact on meaning sentence structure
also involves the use of phrases and
clauses a phrase is a group of words
that work together but do not contain
both a subject and a verb examples
include in the morning or running fast a
clause on the other hand has both a
subject and a verb independent clauses
can stand alone know as complete
sentences while dependent clauses rely
on the main clause for meaning using
phrases and clauses effectively can make
sentences more interesting and
informative parallel structure is
another key component of well-formed
sentences it means keeping the same
grammatical form when listing items or
ideas for example she likes swimming
running and cycling is correct because
all the activities follow the same verb
form how however she likes swimming to
run and cycling is incorrect because to
run is not in the same form as the other
verbs parallel structure makes sentences
smoother and easier to read a
well-structured sentence is not just
about grammar it also creates a natural
flow of ideas good writers and speakers
use sentence variety to make their
communication more engaging short
sentences can be powerful and direct
while longer sentences allow for more
detail and complexity by combining
different sentence structures we can
make our speech and writing more
compelling understanding the structure
of a sentence is essential for mastering
English it helps us form clear logical
and grammatically correct
sentences whether we are writing an
essay having a conversation or giving a
speech knowing how to organize our
thoughts into well structured sentences
allows us to communicate effectively
keep practicing experiment with
different sentence types and soon
building strong and meaningful sentences
will become second nature to you my name
is
Elena I am on a plane I don't want to be
here I don't want to go anywhere but I
have no choice Everything feels wrong my
life is a mess I feel
angry I feel tired I feel
lost last week I failed my exam at the
University it was
important it was the final exam I
studied but I could not focus I tried
but I still
failed two days ago I lost my job my
boss said you are not doing your best I
didn't know what to say I just left at
home things are not better my parents
don't listen to me they don't understand
me they always say you must be stronger
or stop
complaining but they don't really hear
me I feel stress every day I can't sleep
I can't smile I can't think clearly now
I am on this plane I don't know what I'm
doing I don't care about the destination
I just want to go far
away the flight starts people talk
people laugh people eat I don't
care then someone speaks to
me hello she says I don't answer my name
is Margaret she says I say nothing are
you okay she asks I'm fine I say but I'm
not fine she says you look tired
sometimes a story can help a
story I will tell you a story she says
it's a true
story I don't stop her I don't know
why why is she telling me this story why
me why now I don't
know but I start to listen the woman
next to me starts to talk her name is
Margaret I want to tell you something
she says can I I don't say yes I don't
say no but she talks anyway
you look tired she says not sleepy just
tired from
life I don't answer I know that feeling
she
says I want her to stop but I also want
to know more she
says sometimes when everything looks
good on the
outside it feels bad on the
inside I look at her she she keeps
talking people think you're okay because
you have a house a bed food
clothes maybe even a car money nice
things I
listen but inside you feel
empty how does she know she says I used
to feel like
that I finally
speak I don't know what's wrong with me
I
say I have everything but I feel
nothing she nods then she
says tell me
more so I
talk my parents don't understand me I
say they say I have no problems but they
don't see
me I failed my exam last week I lost my
job I feel like a
mistake I feel like I can't do anything
right she says
you are not a
mistake I stay
quiet do you want to hear a story she
asks what kind of story I
say a true one she
says about a girl who also had
everything and still felt
lost why does she want to tell me this
what is this story and why why do I want
to hear it Margaret looks at me she had
a big house she says she had a good job
she had a family she had many friends I
listen she smiled every day Margaret
says but inside she was not happy why I
ask she didn't know Margaret says she
just felt tired every day felt heavy
every night felt
long was she sick I ask no Margaret says
doctor said she was healthy but her
heart was not okay not
broken just
empty I look at her so what did she
do she tried to ignore the feeling
Margaret says she worked more she bought
things she went to parties she laughed
with friends
did it help I ask no she says it got
worse I stay
quiet I think about my
life Margaret
continues one day she was at work she
had a meeting she looked at her
papers and then she just stood up she
left
everything just like that I asked yes
Margaret says she went home she packed a
small bag she bought a plane ticket she
didn't tell anyone she just
left where did she go I
asked she didn't know Margaret says she
just picked a place a place far
away I feel
something her story sounds close to
mine she sat on a plane Margaret says
she felt tired she felt lost she felt
like she was not living her life just
surviving did she talk to someone I ask
yes Margaret says she sat next to a
woman an old woman
kind
calm the woman asked are you
okay I remember those same words
Margaret asked
that she said I'm fine Margaret
continues but the woman knew she was not
fine so the woman told her a
story like you are doing now I
say yes Margaret
says
exactly what was the story I ask it was
simple Margaret says it was about pain
about mistakes about Second Chances
about not giving
up did it change her I asked yes she
says it helped her see something life
doesn't need to be perfect but it must
be
honest you can't lie to yourself you
can't hide from your
feelings I feel quiet
inside then I ask what happened to the
girl she she made a choice Margaret says
to go back to fix what she could to
accept what she could not to ask for
help to start
again I feel my heart beat
faster why are you telling me this I ask
because I see you she says I know that
look I remember that silence I remember
the
pain I want to ask
more but I don't because part of me
already
knows I look at
Margaret she just sits there telling me
all this I don't understand everything
but something inside me is listening
something
deep she
says that girl went home people were
angry people didn't
understand what did she do I asked
she said sorry Margaret says she said I
was
lost I didn't know how to ask for
help did they forgive her I
ask not everyone she says but some did
some waited for
her I feel my eyes
burning I don't know
why Margaret says she went back to
school she started again she studied
slowly
one step at a
time she failed again but this time she
didn't quit I asked was it hard yes
Margaret says it was very
hard did she get better I ask yes she
says because she didn't give
up then she stops talking for a moment I
ask and what about her
job she found a new one Margaret says
not right away it took time but she kept
trying I think about my own job my exam
my parents myself Everything feels too
much I say I don't think I can do that
Margaret looks at me why not because I
always fail I
say no she says you feel like you fail
that's
different I say nothing she says let me
tell you something
important I
listen she
says your pain is real your stress is
real your sadness is real but it does
not have to be
forever I feel something move inside
me not my body my
thoughts she continues you can cry you
can stop you can rest but don't stay
there don't live in that pain I
ask but what if I can't
change you can she says you already
started what do you mean I ask you are
listening Margaret says you didn't push
me away you didn't stop the story that
means something inside you is
ready ready me she says change is not
big it's small one Choice One Moment One
thought I stay quiet then I ask who is
that girl in your
story Margaret looks at me she says that
girl was me I freeze you I ask yes she
says it was me
I don't speak I don't know what to think
she says if I can change maybe you can
too I look at Margaret you were that
girl I ask yes she says I was lost I was
tired I wanted to disappear just like
you I don't know what to say how did you
change I ask I listen to a story she
says just like you are doing now now a
story I ask yes she
says I was on a plane like this I sat
next to an old woman she talked to me I
didn't want to listen but she didn't
stop she told me about her life her pain
her
mistakes I listen
carefully she said something I never
forgot Margaret
says she
said you are not
broken you are just
tired but tired is not
forever I repeat it in my
mind tired is not forever then I ask do
you think I can change too she looks at
me I don't think she says I believe I
stay quiet then she says something I
don't expect Elena she she says you
remind me of my
daughter I look at her you have a
daughter yes she says but we don't talk
now why not I ask she left Margaret says
she felt alone she felt like I didn't
understand her I listen I wanted to help
her she says but I didn't know
how I feel something strange
she continues that's why I talk to
people now on planes on buses in lines
anywhere to help them I ask to help me
she says every story I tell it helps me
heal I think for a moment do you miss
your daughter I asked every day she says
I think of her every night I hope she is
okay what is her name I I ask she looks
down for a second then she says her name
is Elena I sto breathing what I ask
Elena she repeats that's her
name my name her daughter's name is my
name I don't understand is this just a
story is this a
coincidence or something
more she looks at me again and I ask
myself
is this just a flight or is this
something
bigger I feel cold
inside her daughter's name is
Elena my name is
Elena I want to ask more
questions but I stay quiet maybe it's a
coincidence or maybe not Margaret
doesn't say anything for a moment then
she
speaks she left when she was young she
says she said you don't see me then she
walked
out I
listen I didn't understand her pain
Margaret says I thought she had
everything a good home good food school
safety but I didn't see her
heart I look at her she
says now I talk to people I try to give
what I didn't give
her she takes a deep
breath I hope she is happy I hope
someone listens to her I hope someone
tells her what I couldn't
say what's that I ask she looks at me
then she says you are not a problem you
are a
person I feel something change in
me no one ever said that to me before
she
continues you don't need to to be
perfect you don't need to know
everything you just need to keep
going I want to believe her the plane
starts to descend we are almost at our
destination but something feels
different now I don't feel heavy I feel
ready I say thank you Margaret she
smiles I say
I don't know what will happen
next but I want to try again she says
that's enough one small try can open a
big door the plane lands people stand
people talk people wait we sit for a
moment then I
say
maybe maybe I can call my
parents she nods I say maybe I can send
my professor an email she nods again I
say maybe I can look for a new job a
small one just to start she says yes
that's how it
begins we stand up I take my bag I walk
toward the
door before I leave I turn to look at
her one last time but she's not
there I look around I ask a flight
attendant
where is the woman who sat next to
me the flight attendant says I don't
know I didn't see anyone sit there I
feel
confused did I imagine her was she real
I don't know but one thing is clear
now something inside me has changed and
maybe that's all I
needed I don't know if Margaret was real
I don't know if she was a
dream but her words were
true and now I see something
clear sometimes we look fine on the
outside but we are not okay
inside sometimes we think we are alone
but someone is ready to
listen sometimes we think we must be
strong but it's okay to ask for help we
don't need a perfect life we just need a
reason to keep going one small step one
small change one small
hope so if you feel
tired if you feel
lost remember this you are not a problem
you are a person and your story is not
over yet I sit by the
window the sun is warm but my heart
heart feels cold today is
important my children will
come I have not seen them in a long
time I think about my life I worked hard
I made money I built a
business people said you are
successful but was I I remember
Elena my little girl
she had a soft
voice daddy will you come to my school
play she asked one
day I have a meeting I said she was
quiet later my wife said she was sad you
should have
gone I am working for them I said for a
better
future Elena grew up my son Michael too
they had birthdays school events family
dinners I missed many of them I always
said
later but later never
came I hear a
sound is that a car are they here
no just the wind
outside I wait I remember another day
Michael was small he wanted to play just
10 minutes Dad he said I'm busy I
answered he ran to his room my wife said
he wanted time with
you I sighed one day he will
understand but now I understand I
checked the clock they said they would
come will they time is strange before I
had no time now I have too
much I wait I think I
regret my phone
rings I answer quickly Dad we are coming
Elena says I close my
eyes I will be here I say I wait the
clock moves slow my children are coming
but will they really
come I think about the past I wanted the
best for my family a big house a good
life no problems with money I thought
this was love I thought this was enough
but love is not money love is
time and I did not give them
time I remember one
night my wife made made a special
dinner come home early she said the kids
want to eat with
you I have work I said Elena waited all
day she
said I am doing this for them I
said so they never need to
worry that night I ate alone in my
office papers phone calls meetings
no laughter no family no Elena no
Michael I hear a sound outside I listen
a car no just people walking I think
about another day Michael had a soccer
game he was
excited dad will you come he asked I
have work I said next
time there is no next time my wife said
later there is always next time I
answered but time does not
wait I check my phone no message from
them I think about my father he worked
hard too he was never home I promised
myself I will be different but I was the
same Elena grew up she stopped asking
Michael
too one day I
realized they did not wait for me
anymore I see the clock again time is
slow when you wait but in Life Time runs
fast my phone rings my heart jumps I
answer Dad we are almost there Elena
says I close my
eyes I I will be here I say I
wait the clock keeps moving my children
are
coming but will they really
come I think about my wife she always
told me the same
thing you work too
much the children need
you I am doing this for them I always
said
one night she was waiting for
me Michael cried today she said why I
asked you promised to go to his school
presentation you did not
go I had an important meeting I
said he was on stage looking for you she
said he did not see you he looked again
still know you he stood there
waiting I was
quiet he is learning something she
said what I
asked he is learning that work is more
important than
him I did not answer I hear something
outside I listen a
car no just voices on the
street I think about another day Elena
was older she had good
grades one day she came home
happy Dad I won an award at school she
said that's great I said I am proud of
you there is a ceremony tomorrow will
you come she
asked I have a business trip I
said she was quiet that night my wife
said she wanted you
there she knows I am busy I said she
knows my wife said that is the
problem I check my
phone no
message I
wait I remember the day my wife got sick
she was in bed
stay home today she
said I have a big project I
said she smiled a little of
course work is
important she did not ask
again I came home late that
night the house was quiet she was
sleeping I sat next to her I thought
tomorrow I will stay with her
but there was no
tomorrow I hear something outside
again a
car
maybe I think about the last time I saw
Elena and Michael it was years ago they
had their own
lives I will visit soon I
said okay Dad they said but they did not
look at
me I checked my phone again still
nothing I asked myself do they really
want to see
me I wait and keep waiting a little more
the clock moves but time feels
slow my children said they were
coming but what if they change their
mind I look at my phone
no new
messages I think about the past
again I was always too
busy always working always saying next
time but now I have no more next
times I hear something
outside a
car I
listen the sound stops I
wait nothing
maybe they will not
come maybe they are too busy now just
like I
was I remember the last time we spoke on
the phone it was months
ago Dad how are you Elena
asked I'm fine I
said how are you and
Michael we are fine she
said we are busy
busy the same word I always
used I wanted to say please visit me but
I didn't I checked my phone again still
nothing I think about another day a day
long
ago it was Elena's
graduation my wife called
me come quickly she said the ceremony
starts soon
soon I am stuck at work I said I will
come
later there is no later she
said she is walking on stage
now I felt something inside me but I
stayed at
work that night I came home
late Elena was sitting at the table her
graduation cap was next to her
I waited she said I'm sorry I
said she stood up it's okay Dad I didn't
expect you to
[Music]
come I wanted to say something but I
said nothing I hear another
sound I listen carefully a car door
closes then
another is it them or they really
here I wait the seconds feel
long then my phone
rings my hands feel heavy as I pick it
up Dad Elena says we are
here I close my
eyes I feel something inside my chest
something I cannot
explain they
came I hear their voices out
outside they are really
here I take a deep
breath I have waited for this moment I
have thought about this day for a long
time I hear
footsteps the door
opens dad Elena
says I
smile you
came Michael is there
too he looks at me
of course
dad I look at them they look
older or maybe I'm just seeing clearly
for the first time Elena steps
closer how do you feel she
asks I feel happy to see you I say
Michael looks at me we wanted to come
earlier he says but life is busy
busy that word
again I understand I
say there is a
silence I
wait then Elena
says Dad we need to tell you
something I look at
her what is
it she
hesitates Dad this is not your house I
feel confused us what do you
mean Michael looks
down dad you're in the
hospital I
blink the
hospital no that cannot be right I am
sitting in my chair I am waiting at
home I shake my head no I am at home I
am waiting for you I have been waiting
all day
Elena takes a deep
breath dad you have been here for a
week a week no that is not
possible I try to
remember I remember waiting I remember
thinking about the
past but now I cannot remember how I got
here Michael
Speaks you collapsed at home the doctors
say you were very
weak I closed my eyes I try to
understand then I
remember I was at home I felt dizzy my
chest hurt the room was
spinning I tried to stand but my legs
felt
weak
then
nothing I opened my
eyes I thought I was at home
Elena holds my
hand dad you have been sleeping a lot
maybe you were
dreaming Dreaming or maybe I was
remembering I look at them so why are
you
here Michael Smiles a little because you
are our
dad I feel something deep inside
something warm
War all these years I was
afraid afraid that I lost them afraid
that they did not
care but they
came I closed my
eyes I take a deep
breath maybe I'm not too
late I
wait but this time I am not
alone I look at Ellena and Michael they
are here after all these years they are
here I feel tired but not in the way I
used to before I was tired from work
from
stress from always chasing
more now I am just tired from
waiting Michael looks at
me Dad we are
staying he says
I stare at
him
staying Elena
nods
yes we are not leaving
today I do not know what to say for so
many years I was alone I thought they
moved on I thought they did not need me
anymore but now they are here and they
want to
stay I take it deep
breath I thought maybe you would not
come Elena
frowns why would you think
that because I was not there for you I
say I missed so much I was always
working always saying next
time Michael looks
down yes you missed a lot he says Softly
Elena
sigh we were hurt Dad we waited for you
many times we wanted you
there I close my eyes I know I
whisper there is
silence then Michael
Speaks but we are here
now I open my
eyes
why Elena Smiles a little because you
are our
father and we still love
you I feel something inside me
break all these years I thought love had
a
limit I thought I had lost them
forever but love is not like
money it does not
disappear tears fill my
eyes I do not stop
them Michael Speaks again
Dad let's not talk about the past
anymore I look at
him then what do we talk
about Elena
Smiles about now about
today I feel something warm in my chest
for the first time in my life I do not
think about work I do not think about
money I do not think about next time
I just think about
now I
smile okay tell me
everything and for the first time I
listen Elena looks at her
father he is older
now
weaker but today he is
present today he is
listening she thinks about the past
the birthdays the school events the
moments he
missed she remembers the feeling of
waiting the hope that maybe this time he
would
come but he never
did and yet here they
are
together she wonders how many people are
making the same mistake right now how
many parents are saying I am working for
my children but forgetting to be with
them how many children are waiting
hoping and slowly learning not to expect
anything time does not stop it moves
fast one day children stop
waiting they grow up they build their
own lives and the parents who were
always too busy suddenly have to too
much time and no one to share it
with Elena looks at her
father she sees regret in his
eyes but she also sees something else
hope not all lost time can be
recovered but today is still here and
today is a
choice she makes a silent wish for
everyone who hears this
story do not wait until it is too late
love is not about money it is about time
give it now while you still can my name
is Elena I live in a small country life
here is not easy there are no good jobs
there are no Big Dreams every day feels
the same I want something more
I say to my best friend Sophia I want to
go to New
York she looks
surprised really she says yes I say I
want a better life I want a new chance I
can't stay here
anymore Sophia thinks for a
moment then she says I want to go too
we talk for hours we talk about work we
talk about the future we talk about
dreams we say New York is
Big maybe we can find a job maybe we can
learn
English maybe we can help our
families but we don't have
money we don't have a
plan we don't know anyone in New York
still we say let's
go that night I tell my parents I say I
want to
leave I want to go to New York with
Sophia my mother says no it's too
dangerous my father says you don't know
what can
happen I say I
know but I can't stay here I have no
future here
they say you are too young you don't
understand I say I understand enough I
know I want to
try my mother says you can die I say I
can also die here Y without
hope no one talks after that the room is
quiet the air feels heavy
in the morning Sophia sends me a
message she writes are we
going I look at my phone I write back
yes we're
going but I ask
myself are we
ready what if we make a
mistake what if we don't find
anything what if we never come
back so many questions
so much
fear but
also a small light inside me
says go Sophia and I find cheap tickets
we buy them the date is set we are
leaving in 3 days we don't tell many
people we are afraid they will stop us
we only tell our
families my mother says Please Don't
Go my father
says you don't know the world it is not
safe I say I know but I have to
try Sophia and I talk every night we
say are we doing the right thing we
don't know we don't sleep much we are
nervous we are scared
scared but we are also
excited the night before the trip I sit
in my room I think about my life I think
about the
future what if we get
lost what if we don't find
work what if something bad
happens but I also
think what if something good
happens what if we find Hope
then the day
comes my mother
says you still have time to
stay I say no I must
go my father gives me a small amount of
money he says use it only if you really
need it I say thank
you we leave
early Sophia and I meet at the station
she says are you ready
I say no but let's go
anyway we get on the bus we don't talk
much I look out the window and think
this is real we are
leaving there is no way back
now Sophia
Whispers do you think we will be
okay I say I don't know but we will try
then the bus starts
moving and I
wonder what will we find on the
way the trip is long the bus stops many
times people come and go Sophia and I
stay
quiet we don't sleep we don't eat much
we just think we don't have a plan we
don't know where to go we only only know
one thing we want a better
life at one stop a man talks to us he
says where are you
going we say to New
York he smiles and says I can help you I
know people I know a place where you can
stay Sophia looks at me I don't answer
then he says
I just need your passports only for a
moment no I say he says why not I only
want to
help I say we are okay he doesn't speak
again later I say to Sophia we can't
trust anyone she says yes you're right
we arrive in a new city it's not New
York yet yet we need to wait for the
next bus we look for a cheap place we
find one it's
small it's not clean but it's the only
one we can pay we use some of our money
we eat some bread we drink
water that's
all I look at my bag I think we don't
have much left just a little little
money just a little
food what if we run out the next day we
go to the station the line is long we
wait for
hours it is hot it is
loud finally we get on the next
bus Sophia says I miss home I say me
too then I
ask do you want to go
back she says no not yet I say me
neither at night we stop again we are in
a small town we don't know the name we
hear people speaking in English we don't
understand I
say we must learn English
soon Sophia says yes we need it we stay
at the station that night we try to
sleep sitting
down there is noise there is
fear but there is also
hope I think we are tired we are hungry
but we are still
here the next morning I look at Sophia
and say one more bus then we are in New
York she says one more
chance we get on the bus
again I asked
myself what will we do in New York where
will we sleep who will help
us I don't know the answers but I do
know this we are not giving
up after many hours the bus finally
stops we are in New York people stand up
they talk fast they speak
English I don't understand much Sophia
looks at me and
says we are
here I say yes but now
what we don't have a place to stay we
don't have
jobs we don't know
anyone we don't speak English well I
feel
lost we walk to the main exit of the
station there are many people some are
shouting some are laughing some are
asking
questions then a woman walks to
us she says something I don't understand
she repeats are you
okay Sophia and I look at each other I
don't know if we should talk to her I
say
no
English the woman
Smiles then she speaks Spanish she says
I speak Spanish I can
help I don't know what to say Sophia
Whispers can we trust her I think I
don't know but we are tired we are
hungry we don't have many choices I say
we need help
the woman says come with me there is a
safe place you can rest you can
eat I ask why do you help us she says I
was like you once I ask again it's safe
she says yes it's safe trust
me Sophia looks at me I nod we follow
her
on the way I think what if she is lying
what if this is a trap what if we never
come
back but I also think what if she tells
the
truth what if this is our chance I ask
myself did we make a
mistake then we stop in front of a door
she says this is the place you can go
in I look at Sophia she looks at me we
don't speak my heart is full of fear and
hope I take a deep breath inside my
mind I ask myself should we go
in we go inside it is quiet the woman
says this is a shelter you can sleep
here you can eat I say thank
you she says there are many girls here
just like you some have no family some
have no money some are looking for
work I ask do you work here she
says no I
volunteer I say why she says because I
was you I came here with
nothing someone helped me now I help
others I feel something in my heart I
don't say it but I think it maybe good
people still
exist Sophia and I sit in a small room
we eat a sandwich we drink water it is
simple but to us it feels like a
gift l later the woman comes back she
says tomorrow there is a job fair many
companies will be there you can go I ask
can we go without
papers she
says some places accept people like you
it's not easy but it's
possible Sophia asks what kind of
jobs the woman say says cleaning cooking
helping in
shops I say we can
try the next day we go to the job fair
there are many people it is loud people
speak fast we don't understand
everything we walk slowly we look at the
tables a man says do you want to work we
stop
he says I need help in my bakery early
mornings hard work but it's honest I say
we don't speak English well he says it's
okay you will
learn Sophia asks can we start
tomorrow he says yes come at 5:
a.m. we say thank you I can't believe
it I asked ask myself did we really find
a job just like that after so many
problems after all the
fear that night I cannot sleep I think
we are not home we are not safe
yet but
this this is
something this is a
start Sophia says I'm
scared I say me too but we are here here
and we are
together she says do you think
everything will be
okay I say I don't
know then I say but I
think maybe
yes and for the first time in many days
I believe it we go to the bakery at 5:00
a.m. it is
cold it is
dark but we are ready
the man gives us simple tasks he says
clean the tables wash the trays help
with the
bread we don't talk
much we don't know many
words but we work
hard at the end of the day he gives us
money it is not much but it is
honest I look at Sophia and say we did
it she smiles and says yes it's just the
beginning we go back to the
shelter we save our money every week we
work every day we learn a little more
English we learn how to say good
morning we learn how to say how much is
this we learn how to say I want to
work after 1 month we find a small room
to
rent it's not big it's not
perfect but it is ours we buy food we
cook simple meals we talk about our
dreams I say one day I want to
study sopia says one day I want to open
a bakery
I say one day I want to bring my family
here we don't have much but we have hope
I call my mother she
cries she says are you
okay I say yes we are working we are
learning we are safe she says I'm proud
of you my father says be careful but I
believe in you
now I cry
too but not from fear from
Hope one night Sophia and I sit in
silence I say do you remember the day we
left she says yes I was so scared I say
me too but look at us now she says we
are not done I say no we are just
starting than I
think we left with nothing just Dreams
Just
fear but we took the risk and
now we are not lost we are building
something
new step by
step day by
day this is not the
end this is the beginning now I think
about
everything I think about the
fear the
danger the long
nights I think about the moment I said
goodbye to my
parents I think about the times I wanted
to cry and the times I wanted to go
back but I didn't
stop
why because I had a dream a small dream
but it was
mine sometimes life is not
easy sometimes we are
scared but we must
try we must take one step then another
and another even if we're
tired even if we don't know what will
happen
next dreams are not fast dreams are not
perfect but dreams are
possible if you are watching my
story maybe you have a dream
too don't wait for the perfect
moment there is no perfect
moment start
now start
small believe in
yourself and
remember even when you feel
lost you can still find your way